# MY TOP 5 AGILE PRINCIPLES

Build Projects Around Motivated Individuals
Why? This principle embodies everything I value within a workplace. On one end, an employee should be able to shift into roles they are excited about even if they don’t have the experience. Excitement leads to pride in one’s work and that will always end up delivering a higher quality product than work done by rote. On the other end, trusting an employee to do their best on their own time requires space, a hands-off approach and this translates to respect. Nothing has made me more loyal to a workplace than having leaders instead of bosses and being given the trust to lead, myself. 

Self-Organizing Teams
Why? I believe authoritarianism to be a poison to the workplace and larger society as a whole. Authoritarianism relies on hierarchy and within this social arrangement, true communication is impossible. If what I tell my superiors affects my ability to retain my position within a hierarchy, why would I ever communicate information that could threaten that position? Jobs should be held based on relevant experience, yes but also based on passion and personality. Thus, it follows that the most honest work will come from groups that have organized by choice based on shared passion instead of by coercion or force. 

Welcome Change
Why? That nothing has historically occurred to erode a foundation is not to say that said foundation is invincible but that the erosion has yet to come. The most solid structures are those that have flexibility built into their foundations. The same must be true of an organization. It should have flexibility bound up in its core to embrace the change that WILL come and preserve in whatever form it must take to survive in its fundamental state. 

Simplicity
Why? As a climber, I have come to understand this practice as an endless pursuit of maximizing efficiency. Over time, one realizes much of the difficulty of climbing lies not in lack of strength but in an overabundance of energy focused on extraneous areas. Muscles and limbs are engaged that need to be loosened, the fat must be trimmed and the focus brought to the minimum essential areas. It is the process of simplifying, experimenting, failing and repeating that is essential and leads to a dialed machine.

Reflect and Adjust
Why? The modern capitalist age leaves no room to stop and heal for fear that this will lead to failure and failure is equated with collapse. I believe failure to be an essential part of learning, let alone, mastering a practice. If we are to be honest about this practice, we must embrace failure but also leave room to slow down and reflect on where we are, where we want to be and how far we have come, to see where we exist on the maps we have devised. This is the only way we can adequately give ourselves the space and time required to pivot and navigate our way towards our original destination. 
